# Star Wars API

Welcome to the Star Wars API! This API provides information about characters and films from the Star Wars universe.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [API Routes](#api-routes)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)


## Introduction

This API is built using Express.js and Redis to provide cached data about Star Wars characters and films. It fetches data from external sources and stores it in a Redis cache for improved performance.

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up and run the project on your local machine:

1. Clone the repository:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/maycool/swapi-api.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:

```
cd star-wars-api
```
3. Install the dependencies:
```
npm install
```
4. Set up your Redis server. You can install Redis locally or use a cloud-based Redis service.

5. Create a .env file in the project root

6. Start the server:
```
npm run start
```
The server should now be running at http://localhost:3000.

## API Routes
### Fetch People (Characters)
`GET /api/people`:
Fetch information about people (characters) from the Star Wars universe.
Returns a JSON object with people data.

### Fetch Films
#### `GET /api/films` 
Fetch information about films from the Star Wars universe, including character names.
Returns a JSON object with films data.

#### `GET /api/films/:id` 
Fetch information about a specific film from the Star Wars universe, including character names.
Requires a filmId parameter.
Returns a JSON object with film data.

### Fetch Actor (Person) by Name
`GET /api/people/:name`
Fetch information about a specific actor (person) from the Star Wars universe.
Requires a name parameter.
Returns a JSON object with actor data.

## Project Structure

```my-express-project/
|-- src/
|   |-- app.ts
|   |-- routers/
|       |-- api.ts
|-- dist/                  (Generated by TypeScript compiler)
|-- index.ts               (Server entry point)
|-- tsconfig.json          (TypeScript configuration)
|-- package.json
|-- README.md
|-- .env                   (Environment variable configuration)
```
